#LyX 1.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 218
\textclass linuxdoc
\language english
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize 10
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm 

\begin_inset Figure size 555 97
file ../../images/logo.eps
flags 10

\end_inset 


\layout Date

May 6th, 2003
\layout Abstract

OpenDocMan is a full featured Web-based document management system designed
 to conform to ISO 17025/IEC.
 It features automatic installation, file check-in/out, departmental access
 control, file moderation, fine grained user access control, email notificaiton
 and a great search function.
 Written in PHP, and utilizing MySQL for the backend, this project is useful
 for any company looking to keep their documentation in a centralized repository.
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \tableofcontents{}

\end_inset 


\layout Section

Introduction
\layout Subsection

Features
\layout Enumerate

Automatic Installation - Automatically install the application or upgrade
 your current version
\layout Enumerate

Check-in and Check-out files - This provides file locking so that no two
 persons can update the same file at the same time
\layout Enumerate

Search Engine - Keyword search helps locate documents quickly
\layout Enumerate

Multiple Users, Departments, and Categories - The system allows for an unlimited
 number of these elements
\layout Enumerate

File Moderation - Allows for departmental 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

reviewers
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 to authorize or decline files for publication to the repository
\layout Enumerate

Email Notification - The system has a built in email notification system
 for file authorization process
\layout Enumerate

Fine Grained Access - Ability to control read/write/admin/forbidden permissions
 for individual files based on users or groups or both.
\layout Enumerate

File History - Provides a history of actions taken upon a file
\layout Enumerate

Admin and Root users - Each installation can have any number of 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

admin
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 users, who can create users, categories, etc..
 One 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

root
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 user can do all.
\layout Subsection

Requirements
\layout Itemize

Apache Webserver 1.3.x (or any other webserver, that supports PHP) (http://www.apac
he.org/)
\layout Itemize

MySQL Server 3.22+ (http://www.mysql.com/)
\layout Itemize

PHP 4+ compiled with MySQL-Support (http://www.php.net/)
\layout Section

Installation and Updating
\layout Subsection

Update Procedure
\layout Standard

To update your current version to the latest release:
\layout Enumerate

Rename your current opendocman folder.
\layout Enumerate

Unarchive opendocman into a new folder
\layout Enumerate

Edit the config.php in your new folder (Look at your old config.php file for
 some settings that can be transferred over from the old config to the new).
\layout Enumerate

Load the setup.php page (ex.
 http://www.mydomain.com/opendocman/setup.php) and click on the appropriate
 upgrade link.
 Refer to your old config.php to see what version you were using before.
\layout Subsection

New Installation
\layout Enumerate

Untar files into any dir in your webserver documents dir (ex.
 /var/www)
\layout Enumerate

Edit config.php
\begin_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

All parameters are commented and should be self explanatory.
 Change any that apply, especially the database parameters.
\end_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

If you DO have database creation permissions to your MySQL database then
 you can use the automatic setup script (preferred method).
\begin_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

Load the setup.php page and click on the new install link.
 (ex.
 http://www.mydomain.com/opendocman/setup.php)
\layout Enumerate

Enter the username and password of a user that has database creation permissions
 for the database configured in config.php
\layout Enumerate

Skip step 4 and move on to step 5
\end_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

If you DO NOT have database creation permissions, be advised that you should
 be carefull in doing things manually
\begin_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

NOTE: The entries below are just examples.
\layout Enumerate

create a MySQL-database and MySQL-User for opendocman
\begin_deeper 
\layout Verbatim

$> mysql -u root -p
\layout Verbatim

Welcome to the MySQL monitor.
 Commands end with ; or 
\backslash 
g.
\layout Verbatim

Your MySQL connection id is 5525 to server version: 3.22.32
\layout Verbatim

Type 'help' for help.
\layout Verbatim

mysql> create database opendocman;
\layout Verbatim

mysql> grant select,insert,update,delete,create on opendocman.* to opendocman@loc
alhost identified by 'opendocman';
\layout Verbatim

mysql> flush privileges;
\layout Verbatim

mysql> exit;
\layout Verbatim

$> mysql -u opendocman -p opendocman < database.sql
\end_deeper 
\end_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

Make a directory for the files to be stored that is accessible to the web
 server but not available by browsing
\begin_deeper 
\layout Verbatim

$>mkdir /usr/local/opendocman/data
\end_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

Point your favorite webbrowser to the opendocman folder: ex.
 "http://www.mydomain.com/opendocman"
\layout Enumerate

Login as "admin" (without password).
 After that, go to "admin->users->update->admin" and set your admin password.
\layout Enumerate

Add departments, categories, users, etc.
\layout Enumerate

Enjoy!
\layout Section

Configuration
\layout Subsection

config.php
\layout Standard

Most of the configuration for OpenDocMan is controlled by a file name config.php.
 Below are some of the configurable options in that file:
\layout Itemize

$database - The name of the database used (ex.
 opendocman)
\layout Itemize

$user - The user that has update/insert/delete permissions on above database
\layout Itemize

$pass - Password for above user
\layout Itemize

$hostname - The hostname of the database server (ex.
 db1.mydomain.com)
\layout Itemize

demo - This setting is for a demo installation, where random people will
 be all loggging in as the same username/password like 'demo/demo'.
\layout Itemize

authen - Future setting to control other authentication methods.
 Currently only MySQL and web-based kerberos authentication is supported.
\layout Itemize

page_limit - Set the number of files that show up on each page
\layout Itemize

displayable_len - Set the maximum displayable length of text field in file
 list
\layout Itemize

base_url - Set this to the url of the site (no ending slash)
\layout Itemize

title - This is the browser window title and be anything you want (ex.
 Mycomany Document Managment System)
\layout Itemize

current_version - This is the program version for window title (This should
 be set to the current version of the program)
\layout Itemize

site_mail - The email address of the administrator of this site.
 Users will be told to contact this person if they encounter errors.
\layout Itemize

root_username - This variable sets the root username.
 It must be set to one of the current users of opendocman.
 The root user will be able to access all files and have authority for everythin
g.
 (ex.
 jsmith)
\layout Itemize

dataDir - Location of file repository.
 This should ideally be outside the Web server root.
 Make sure the server has permissions to read/write files in this folder!
\layout Itemize

$allowedFileTypes - This is a list of file types that will be allowed to
 be added to the repository.
 This may need some tweeking depending on what types of files your users
 have.
\layout Subsection

Administration Editor
\layout Standard

When a user is set up as an 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

admin
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

, they will see an admin menu in the upper right while they are logged in.
 There are options for User, Category, and Department management under this
 menu item.
\layout Section

Tutorial
\layout Subsection

Adding a file
\layout Subsection

Adding a user
\layout Subsection

Authorizing a file
\layout Subsection

Checking out a file
\layout Section

Credits
\layout Author

Stephen Lawrence Jr.
 - Project Lead/Programmer
\layout Author

Khoa Nguyen - PHP and Javascript Programming
\layout Standard

Originally inspired by an article called cracking the vault.
\layout Section

Automated Installation and Upgrade Notes (For Developers)
\layout Standard

There is a new folder named "install" which contains files use by the new
 script called setup.php.
 This is an automated web-based update/installation script.
 Here is how it works for users:
\layout Enumerate

The user loads setup.php into their browser.
 They can either select the new installation link, or one of the upgrade
 links.
\layout Enumerate

For a new installation:
\begin_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

The user will be prompted to enter a priviledged mysql username and password.
 This is for the database creation and grant assignments.
 The script will then proceed to install all the necessary data structures
 and default data entries for the most current version of ODM.
\end_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

For updates:
\begin_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

The user will need to find their current version (which comes from their
 old config.php), and they would then click on the appropriate upgrade link.
 For example, if their version number is 1.0, they would click on the "Upgrade
 from 1.0" link.
 This will apply all necessary database changes to their current database.
\end_deeper 
\layout Standard

For developers, when there is a new version release, a few new files need
 to be created and a current files modified.
\layout Enumerate

upgrade_x.php - where x is the release name.
 This file should follow the same format as the other upgrade_x.php files
 and is used for upgrades only.
 This should be built from the output of a program like mysqldiff.pl and
 is the "diff"erence between the it's version, and the version before it.
 
\layout Enumerate

Setup.php - add a new function for the new version upgrade (ex.
 "do_update_x()") where x is the release name.
 
\begin_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

Inside this new function, you must "include" each previous upgrade file
 in succession (see upgrade_10.php for an exmaple, which is for a user upgrading
 from 1.0 to the latest).
 
\layout Enumerate

Add a new case statement for the new upgrade call 
\layout Enumerate

Add a new link to print_intro() for the upgrade function
\end_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

odm.php - This file should follow the same format as the current odm.php file,
 and should contain all the necessary sql commands to create a new installation
 based on the latest database schema.
 
\layout Enumerate

database.sql - This should contain the same sql commands as odm.php, only
 in a mysqldump format for users that need to manually install the program
 for some reason.
 This can be a mysqldump straight from the latest database schema.
\layout Standard

These files MUST be kept syncronized for each release!
\the_end
